[[include theme:black-highlighter-theme]]
[[include :scp-sandbox-3:theme:dimension-x]]
[!---------- ↑ DON'T TOUCH THIS IF YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND IT ↑ -----------]

[[div style="background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, .8); padding: 5px;"]]
Beatrix awoke, lying on the cold stone floor if what aopeared to be a cave. Adrian laid to her right; motionless, but breathing. His arms crossed over his chest like a mummy. 

“Where am I?” She thought to herself, as her eyes adjusted to the brightness, or lack thereof. She tried to think about the last thing she could remember. She had vague memories, but it was strange, she remembered the mountain, remembered the door, remembered Cain, but the memories were foggy. As if dozens different memories of the same event happening with different outcomes were overlaid in her mind. 

She sat up on her elbows and noticed a man sitting in the far corner of room, who appeared to be typing on a computer, a black, shoulder length braid ran down the back of his neck. “I’m glad you’re awake,” the man said as he turned to look at her. 

His glasses reflected the dim lighting of the cave, his eyes locked on her. “I’m O5-10” the man said, “and as you might imagine, the situation is dire.”

Beats sat all the way up, “one of the overseers?” She thought, what was going on? 

“I’m sure your mind is a bit foggy at the moment,” Ten continued, “both with everything that’s been happening out here, as well as your own recent experiences.” Beats racked her brain, but was met by a cacophony of memories that she couldn’t make sense of: a door, metal vines, a high pitched whirring sound, and something about a mountain that disappeared. 

“Unfortunately,” Ten said as he rose from his chair, “We don’t have the time to explain everything, so here’s what you need to know. Omega-7 was wiped out during an incursion of Yellowstone mountain, you and Agent Andrew both died, and reality collapsed in on itself.”

Beats sat in a stunned silence, unsure of how to react. 

“Unfortunately, that’s also where my understanding of the situation sort of ends. We’ve lost communications across huge portions of the Foundation, and while everything seems stable, I’m not exactly sure what happened.”

Beatrix sat for another moment, before asking the obvious question. “So if Adrian and I both died, how are we here?”

“Ah,” Ten smiled, “I’m not sure how familiar you’d be with [*https://scp-wiki.wikidot.com/scp-2000 SCP-2000], but it’s one of our many failsafe devices. Effectively, it’s a cloning machine. This,” he said, gesturing to the cave around them, “is 2000-1. A sectioned off portion of the main machine that can be activated and operated independently. You are now the third person alive who knows about it.”

Beats groaned, rubbing her head. “I still don’t understand. You cloned us? But I can remember my life, Omega-7, Adrian… it’s just the end that’s foggy.” 

Ten turned back to the computer, “Yes, apparently the operatives of Omega-7 had neurological implants placed in their skulls that uploaded periodic backups of each of your consciousness-es.”

“Apparently?” Beats asked. 

“Yes, that’s one of the things I’m not entirely sure about. I am fully confident that I am one of the individuals with the full knowledge of Mobile Task Force Omega-7 and I know we never implanted these chips. There were discussions about it, but ultimately the idea was voted against.”

“Could it have been done without you knowing?” Beats asked.

“While it’s not technically impossible, considering that I was the one who originally proposed the idea, I find it hard to believe that I would’ve been kept in the dark about it. Frankly though,” Ten said, “that’s the least of my concerns. It’s been about 2 days since you and Agent Andrews were terminated… what year do you think it is?”

“2006?” Beatrix answered hesitantly. 

“Well 2 days ago, you would’ve been correct. Now, it seems like it’s 2029.”

At this point, Beats didn’t think her brain could handle any more revelations, “I’ve missed 23 years of my life?” she groaned, rubbing her eyes. "This job sucks."

“Not quite,” Ten responded, “that was my first thought too but no, it doesn’t seem like it. From the records and sources I do have access to, it seems like the whole world jumped 23 years. A child who was born the day you died would still only be 2 days old, but it seems like a period of 2 decades has been added to reality.”

“What the hell does that even mean?” 

“I don’t know,” Ten responded. 

They sat for a moment, before a sharp gasp broke the silence. Adrian sat straight up, frantically reaching for a sidearm that wasn’t there. Beats reached out and placed a hand on his arm. “Adrian,” she said, “everything’s ok, you’re safe.”

Adrian’s eyes widened in shock, “Beats?” He exclaimed, his face a mixture of confusion and relief. “But… the doll… I saw you..” 

“Yes, you and Agent Maddox both died that night in Yellowstone,” Adrian jumped as he noticed Ten for the first time, the Overseer packing equipment into backpacks on the desk. “I used an anomaly to bring you both back, because I am severely running out of options.”

“I assume you’re an Overseer then,” Adrian said as he rose to his feet. 

“Ten,” Ten responded. 

Adrian nodded curtly, “What’s the situation?”

“I honestly don’t know,” Ten said as he turned and handed a backpack to Adrian and Beats, sliding the third one over his own shoulders, “but I do know that we need to leave now.”


[[/div]]


[!---------- ↓ MAKE SURE YOU CHANGE PAGE_TITLE, USERNAME, AND SLUG ↓ -----------]
[[include component:license-box]]
[[include component:license-box-end]]
