




































Artwork:
Most of the artwork in this book was made using Reroll. A library of free custom assets I’ve made that you can use with your own Reroll characters can be found here, and even more can be found on the Patreon. The background art for the cover was made by edermunizz. Some of the gemstones come from Mineral Assets by StewV.

More Assets, Items, Monsters, and Modules:
Join the Patreon for exclusive access to all of my assets, (both full Reroll characters, and assets for you to use with your Reroll characters), Monsters, Pre-made Character Sheets, Custom Items, and Modules. (If you don’t want to pay, I’ve got a huge amount available for free over on the Wiki.

You also get access to a bunch of other stuff like early access to my free work (like this book), my other miscellaneous artwork, early access to my minecraft mods, full access to my minecraft builds, and BTS bonus content for pretty much all of my work.


Join the Kult:
Noctra desires your knowledge, Join the Discord.


This project was heavily inspired by the Conflux Art Monster Books.
Noctra
Personality
History
Portfolio/Domain
Followers
     Noctisore
       Umbrasharnagha
Deepwater Church
Local Inhabitants
The Noctral Sanctuary
       Dionysus
       Eldunari
     The Gravemind Troll
     Court of Stars and Shadows
       Aywin Deepwater
       Sylvaris Greenage
       Colton Ridge
       Omari Lloyd
	






















Preface
This is a sandbox module that is designed to be slotted into any setting or campaign, without actually removing the party from that geographic space (in a permanent manner). This is the free version, written directly with the Forgotten Realms lore. The full version of this module is the Deepwater Sandbox, available on Patreon.
Deepwater is a hidden realm dedicated to knowledge, art, and science in the most literal sense. It’s patron, Noctra, is a goddess of knowledge and despises the idea of hiding away and censoring knowledge simply because it can be used for evil. Because of this, Deepwater is a strange place of both evil and good, dark and light, magic. It is a haven for dark mages and outcast scientists to conduct their experiments, but also a place of refuge for knowledge, art, and magic that would have otherwise been lost to time. 
Designer/Writer: Kyphxr
Artwork: Reroll and Kyphxr
Adventure Hook:
The adventure begins with the party being tasked by a wizard to return a package for him. The wizard seems to be acting cagey, but he’s offering a large payment, and half up front (5000gp each). He sends the party to a local dock where a captain of a shipping vessel agrees to take you to deliver the package. Upon reaching the instructed location, the party is transported to the Deepwater plane, where they learn the reason the wizard didn’t want to make the delivery himself.










(This is the Forgotten Realms version of Deepwater and is not canon to Sxlaris.)
Noctra - The Patron of Deepwater
Noctra is a greater multispheric deity of magic, nighttime, and shadows, who many believe to be a sort of Anti-Mystra.



Personality:
[Chaotic, Neutral] Noctra is a scholar above all else, and as such, she holds knowledge and information in the highest regard. While her overall goals and plans are often complex and difficult to discern, at its core, every action she takes is a step towards the acquisition of knowledge.

With knowledge being a core pillar of Noctra’s philosophy, her core tenant is to always fight the opponent of knowledge: the unknown. It is for this reason that darkness and nighttime are part of Noctra’s divine portfolio. Sapient beings have an innate fear of the darkness, because it is a representation of the unknown. Noctra teaches her followers that the fear brought on by darkness should not be used as a justification for fleeing, but as a challenge to learn the unknown, so that you no longer have to fear. Noctra possesses an otherworldly level of charisma, and is a master of deception, lies, and trickery.
History:
Noctra was born a mortal human woman who little is known about. What is known is that from a young age, she was obsessed with knowledge of the divine and arcane, and almost immediately became a wizard. In an abnormally small amount of time, Noctra achieved mastery of Wizardry, Pact Magic, Sorcery, and Druidcraft, and began following a path of apotheosis.

Noctra’s mortal form.

Noctra began to establish a divine portfolio through rigorous study of divine knowledge, which she became very adept in obtaining, both through her charisma, as well as her ruthlessness. As she took on the divine portfolios of lesser gods and deities, often those of enchantment, darkness, and trickery, the war between Netheril and the Phaerimm was beginning to reach its peak. Suspecting the outbreak of some sort of divine conflict, Noctra began planning the creation of a mythal.

Recruiting a group of elven spellcasters, they traveled to an island that contained a portal to the Astral plane and, using that portal as the anchor for the spell, began to cast a true mythal. Unbeknownst to the group, this was happening during the events of Karsus’s Folly. 

At the conclusion of Noctra’s mythal ritual, Karsus wrested control of the Weave from Mystryl. Noctra’s mythal was cast at the same moment Mystryl lost hold over the weave, and the effects of all things magical doubled for a short time, allowing Noctra to completely warp the weave into her own small pocket of “Noctral Weave”. In the instances after this mythal was created, Mystryl sacrificed herself, and magic ceased to function. Noctra was able to hold this small pocket of Weave stable for the few moments that magic ceased to exist, with a level of effort that destroyed her corporeal form. Mystra was reborn as the goddess of magic, and created the new weave. This new weave of Mystra was able to connect to Noctra’s weave enough to stabilize it, but because of the strength of the magic holding it together, it still remained a segment of Mystryl’s original weave, and thus sat outside of Mystra’s reach.
Portfolio/Domain:
Noctra’s divine portfolio consists of 3 primary domains: Runeweaving, Knowledge, and Dark magic (both literal darkness and dark like necromancy).

Runweave Magic:
If Mystra is the patron of Magic, and the other pantheons of gods make up the patronage of the Prime Material, Mystra is the patron of what ties those two together. This concept, called the runeweave can be seen in spells like Glyph of Warding, Druid Grove, Temple of the gods, and many others, imbues magic into the physical world. Covering various schools of magic, from conjuration, to transmutation, Noctra’s magic is much more permanent and lasting than raw arcana, or pure material, and combines the two to create something greater than the sum of its parts.

Knowledge:
A hunger for knowledge is what allowed Noctra to successfully achieve a path of divinity, and as such remains a core tenant of her Portfolio. Noctra’s religion and following is unique in that it is only a religion by the fact that it is the desire of a divine power. Instead of prayer and sacrifices, Noctra tasks her patrons with learning and studying as much as they can. This can manifest in many different forms, with wizards, artificers, and even warlocks and sorcerers can find patronage in Noctra. Followers of Noctra, called the Children of Noctra are often gifted enchanted gems which can magically store vast amounts of knowledge and information.

Dark Magic:
Fear is the mind killer. Noctra does not believe in submission to fear, and as such believes darkness should not be used as a justification for fleeing, but as a challenge to learn the unknown, so that you no longer have to fear. As such her divine portfolio also encompasses most forms of dark magic, from literal darkness, to taboo and frowned upon magic like necromancy, and infernal magic. Creatures like Hellhounds, Displacer Beasts, and Nightmares are favored by Noctra, and will often begin to manifest in the prolonged presence of her magic.
Followers:
The Children of Noctra, sometimes referred to as the Children of the Night, are the worshipers of Noctra, and always have one singular facet in common: an insatiable hunger to learn and acquire knowledge. Noctra is not a monotheistic god, and encourages her followers to worship and study under other deities, only tasking them with learning more from their polytheistic worship. Due to the efforts of the elven spellcasters who helped her create her mythal and achieve divine status, Noctra holds a particular fondness for all types of elves.

Being the goddess of Runeweave magic, Noctra also favors innately magical creatures, like Centaur, Satyr, Merfolk, and the like. 
Noctisore:
The Noctisore, or Shadow Sisters, are a pragmatic religious order steeped in mystery and espionage, that worship the Goddess of the Night. The group is predominantly made up of women, with a strict hierarchical structure that is almost in opposition to the nature of most of Noctra’s following. The Noctisore was a very tightly knit order who kept their practices and training methods hidden from outsiders under layers of lies and mysticism. The order is lead by the Archreverend Umbrasharnagha, most often referred to as Nagha, a Shadow dragon that legend states was raised by Noctra herself in her mortal days.
Umbrasharnagha
Nagha is a former steel dragon who journeyed with Noctra during her time as a mortal. The two would spend an extended period of time in Shadowfell as Noctra studied the Plane of Shadows. This extended stay would ultimately transform Nagha into a shadow dragon and is something many see as the dragon’s pledge to the future goddess. 
 
Nagha in her humanoid and dragonoid forms.

In the present day, Nagha still tends to prefer her humanoid form, though sometimes she appears more as a dragonborn than a true human, her appearance is constantly shifting from day to day. She is very reclusive and typically resides in the shadowy hidden chambers of Deepwater Church.
Deepwater Church:
Deepwater church is the present day site of Noctra’s ancient mythal and the Noctral Weave. It is the home of Awin Deepwater, the Noctisore, and the Court of Stars and Shadows, Mystra’s high council. 

Deepwater Church is located in an extra dimensional plane that holds the island with the sacred Noctral mythal. The entire plane is an endless ocean of crystal clear seawater, with an island at its center. Any beings that travel out of sight of the island, find themselves back at the point in which they originally entered the plane. Unlike most other planes the plane can be entered using standard teleportation spells, and in all meaningful ways, functions as part of the prime material. The only other method of entering the oceans of Deepwater Church is to find a portal on the open ocean that appears as a large cloud of fog hovering above the water. This can typically only be done intentionally by the Children of Noctra, or by adventurers traveling under Noctra’s guidance. The only other ships that find this portal, tend to be ones that fall victim to the sirens.

The circular island at the center is about 1.5 miles across in diameter, the shores stacked with the hulls of beached ships, extending the diameter of the island out by an extra mile, their broken hulls tilted into the air and layered over one another. At the center of the island sits an enormous mesa, made out of inky black volcanic stone. A large cave entrance can be found on one side of the mesa, opening up into a cavern about 1400 feet in diameter. At the center of the cavern sits a 300 foot circular pool of water that extends down into the murky depths, and with a channel that leads out into the ocean. The channel is about 65 feet wide and 75 feet deep. 
Maps

Deepwater Cavern (not drawn to scale)



The roof of the cavern, some 200 feet above, is covered in a cloudy substance that has as strange, optical illusory effect; the substance has the volumetric shape and movement of clouds or fog, but instead of having a discernable color or form, the texture/surface of these clouds appears to be a bright gray color with a strange parallax effect. Upon closer examination, one would realize that this substance is a 2 way portal to the Astral Plane. 

A horizontal view of Deepwater (this drawing is more representative of the sanctuary’s inner workings, than an exact map of where things are.)


Local Inhabitants:
The ocean surrounding the island is a warm water reef, inhabited by several tribes of merfolk, and a clan of Noctral Elves. All of the local inhabitants are friendly with Children of Noctra. 

Noctral Elves.
Often confused with Shardar-Kai, and drow, Noctral Elves are a chimaeric sub-race of elves that almost exclusively inhabit the oceans of Deepwater Church. They have a unique thermochromatic skin that drastically changes color depending on their environment.

When in sunlight, their skin becomes a deep black, resembling that of a drow, but with shimmering purple veins. 

Noctral elves when in prolonged sunlight.

When in darkness, their skin becomes bone white, and in the water, their skin produces small patches of purple and blue scales. Their shimmering purple veins are always visible, no matter the temperature of their environment. Noctral Elves gain the ability to control this coloration once they reach around 300 years of age. Noctral elves do not need to breathe, though many do out of habit or comfort.

Noctral elves when in prolonged darkness.

Any elf that is not a drow, who spends an extended period of time in the plane of Deepwater Church will begin exhibiting the traits of Noctral elves, and spending a period of a month or longer will convert any sub-race of elf into a Noctral elf, the amount of time it takes for these effects to wear off is the exact amount of time spent in the plane. After a year, this change becomes permanent and can only be undone by a 9th level wish spell.

Sirens.
Noctral sirens are chaotic magical beings created by the presence of sustained Noctral magic from Deepwater Church. Their upper body is completely indistinguishable from a human woman, save for their sharpened teeth, and black sclera with glowing rectangular pupils. The lower half of a siren’s body is identical to that of merfolk, with a powerful tail that allows for underwater traversal. The tail is covered in fish scales, and can be any variety of color. 

Jiru, the Siren Queen.

Sirens have magical voices that possess an innate spell that suggests any listeners to do what they ask, every time they speak. This spell is a compulsion to do whatever is being ordered, and can be resisted with a DC10 WIS Check. Noctral Elves, Merfolk, and other sirens are immune to a siren’s charm, and siren charms are completely nullified by the effects of Noctra’s mythal, allowing them to communicate normally with other creatures on the island. Sirens often sit on the edges of the island, singing beautiful songs that can be heard faintly for miles outside of the portal entrance, drawing ships in with their alluring call. When a ship crashes into the island it becomes part of the island, thus breaking the sirens’ charm, and allowing the doomed sailors to realize their mistake. While sirens are friendly too and often take orders from Children of Noctra, they still have a tendency to try and allure Children of the Night to crash their boats into the shore of the island, and expand its reach.

Merfolk.
The merfolk of Deepwater are made up of mostly scholarly tribes, who spend a majority of their time reading, studying, and transcribing scientific research. They coexist with the local Elves and Sirens, with intermingling between the three races being common.

The Noctral Sanctuary
The cave at the center of the island is known as Deepwater Church, and is an enormous library of knowledge, art, and magic. The sanctuary is ruled by the Court of Shadows and Stars, but is generally a lawless place, so long as the library itself is not damaged. The one rule that does exist is to not harm any of the Noctral beings that inhabit the waters around the island, including the elves, sirens, and merfolk. 

Inside of Noctra's sanctuary, magic behaves differently. Any sanctuary based spell like Druid Grove, Private Sanctum, and the like have their maximum size tripled. Objects enchanted with glyphs of warding can be moved more than 10 feet freely without breaking the enchantment, provided the enchantment held by the glyph does not cause damage. Stones and shells imbued with various healing and transmutation spells are often traded as a sort of currency amongst those in the sanctuary.

The sanctuary itself is a surprisingly crowded menagerie of shops, breweries, pleasure houses, and taverns, with more exotic scientific laboratories and arcanic ritual caves scattered along the walls of the cavern. The denizens of Deepwater are a wide assortment of beings, but tend to be humans, elves, gnomes, and drow. While many who stumble upon Deepwater Church are seeking knowledge, many others come for the art, music, and entertainment as well, with a church of Dionysus sitting in the center of the music halls, art displays, and breweries.

The center of the cavern has a deep pool of ocean water, where the aquatic races travel in and out of the channel. The main pool extends down around 100 feet, and the entire bottom of the pool is covered with thousands and thousands of Eldunari.

Eldunari.
Eldunari, or Soul Stones, resemble small gemstones of varying color, but are made of pure arcane energy, created through a very dark magic ritual that distills a sapient creature, both body and soul, into an arcane energy, and infuses it into a gem. Though similar to Soul gems and Soul coins, the process of creating an Eldunari involved a far darker magic. This process destroys both the physical form of the being and the original gem, leaving only the new arcane gem in its place, with the soul and consciousness of the being sealed inside. This process does not cause the death of the being, that means mortals who undergo this process will not experience an afterlife, and immortal beings like liches will not be re-manifest by its refractory, as the being is locked in a form of living stasis.


The process to create an Eldunari involves a complex ritual that draws on infernal and necrotic transmutation magic to convert the living being down to the raw form of their arcana, and cast it into a gem. The size and power of a stone directly correlates to the arcane potential of the being who was converted; a completely non-magical human going through this process would produce little more than an ordinary rock.

So long as the trapped being has some amount of magical potential, and Eldunari will be successfully created, and the being can be spoken to telepathically whenever their stone is being held. 
Each stone contains 1 charge. You can expend 1 charge to transform the being back to their original form, where they can interact with the world in the same capacity they could before being bound. This effect lasts for 1 hour, after which the being will return to an arcane stone. 1 charge is replenished each dawn.

Eldunari are very susceptible to suggestion spells and charms, and as such are often used to create exceptionally powerful golems which can operate indefinitely, without needing its creator nearby, but can be used as a battery for any form of physically bound magic.

In the years after Karsus’s Folly, during Noctra’s dormancy, the island was overtaken by a group of pirates known as the Arid Fog. Their leader, Gale Burnwright, created the process of crafting Eldunari, and was using the Sacred Noctra mythal to do so, until he was killed by Aywin Deepwater and the island was liberated. 

Gale Burnwright, air genasi, pirate captain.

The effects of the Eldunari ritual cannot be undone however, and so thousands of sirens, elves, and merfolk who were transformed now lay at the bottom of the basin. Many Eldunari are carried around by other merfolk, sirens, and elves, and some are even carried by Children of Noctra themselves to assist outside of the sanctuary. However, many are too distraught from the curse cast upon them and so choose to remain resting at the bottom of the cavern pool.

Reigar
The majority of the inhabitants of Deepwater are a race of Celestials known as the Reigar. Reigar are tall, androgynous humanoids with pale blue skin, and golden hair that floats in a non-existent breeze.

A male and female Reigar.
Standing at around 7 feet tall, Reigar tower over most humanoids. They value art and artistic expression above all else and as such, no two Reigar look the same. Outside of their similar hair and skin color, every Reigar is adorned with an intricate web of tattoos, magical runes, piercings, and other forms of self decoration. They are masterful artists, and spend all of their time in pursuit of avant-garde artistic ideals.

The Reigar homeworld was destroyed millenia ago in an event known as the Master Stroke. Since then, the Reigar have become a nomadic race that typically roams the Astral Plane, and many of them end up finding sanctuary in Deepwater, where they can express their art and vanity with limitless potential. Reigar are very self-centered and usually chaotic neutral beings, often including violence and pain into their works of art. They have little care for things like morality, especially in regards to creation, any means to create something beautiful is seen as being a means to an end.

Shakti
Every Reigar has a personalized magical artifact they create, known as a Shakti, which could change between three different forms. The base form was that of a piece of small amulet, usually in the shape of some sort of animal. Specifically amongst the Reigar of Deepwater, that animal was usually some form of magical owl or crow, though many other animal charms could be seen occasionally. This animal was usually one of personal significance to the Reigar, hence why so many in Deepwater have totems of Noctra’s sacred animals. When a command word was spoken by the wearer, the totem could transform into one of two other forms. 

The first was a mount form, in which the totem would grow into a living construct that resembled a giant version of the animal it depicted. This animal could be ridden as a mount, and telepathically controlled by its creator. The second form was that of a suit of armor and their chosen weapon. When in this “combat” form, the armor would magically adhere to its wearer, similarly to an artificer’s arcane armor. This armor was adorned with markings and shapings of the animal that the totem depicts, and the wearer gains a special attack ability based off of that animal as well. The weapon formed with the armor is completely personalized to the Reigar, and could range from a simple handaxe or trident, to a full blown magical weapon they had acquired as a spoil. These magical items were attuned to a specific person upon their creation, and as such stealing or pillaging one as a spoil would simply leave you with an inert totem that had no inherent properties.

Most Reigar live separately from one another, instead typically choosing to live with a menagerie of other beings, typically ones who served or outright worshiped them. These small groups, each centered around a singular Reigar, became known as “houses”, and the status of a house often dictates the level of respect and authority that Reigar wields. Reigar will often create a Shakti for each member of their house, each adorned with the markings and symbols of that house. Reigar will sometimes rarely create Shakti as gifts for others outside of their house, but these gifted versions are often much weaker and can only be used once per day. The only beings on record as having a fully fledged Shakti are Aywin Deepwater, Sylvaris Greenage, and Crellix Grayve.

Gravemind Troll
The Gravemind Troll is a nightmarish creature that lives in the web of cave systems underneath the island. In the shadowy edges of Deepwater Cavern, away from the chivalry and music of Deepwater, you can find dark, narrow passages leading deep into the stone. Navigating this seemingly endless maze of old lava tubes and dwarven passages will reveal dozens of secluded ritual caves, scientific laboratories, and parts of the library containing darker forms of magic. At the bottom of these passages, you will find the hive of the Gravemind Troll, often called the Garden of Mold. Originally brought to the island by the illithid scientist known as the Grafted King. Over the decades the troll has been subjected to hundreds of experiments both by the Grafted King, as well as other magicians and scientists who have visited the island. In order to sustain the troll’s immense hunger, dozens of drop shoots have been carved into the stone, where rotting food and dead bodies can be dumped down into the hive below.

The cavern itself is hundreds of feet in width, with an enormous pit in the center. This pit extends down seemingly infinitely into the darkness, and at some point, transfers back to the Material Plane, and lets out in the Underdark. The Underdark portion of the pit is an exact mirror of the top of the pit, with the roof of the underdark half, looking like the floor of the overworld half. This underdark cave works in the same manner as the island, only being reachable through hidden portals that can only be found by Children of Noctra, or unlucky adventurers. 

The entirety of this pit is consumed by the body of the Gravemind Troll, which bears no resemblance to the creature it once was. What was once a mutated sort of dire troll has become an unrecognizable bass of flesh so large that it stretches from underneath the island, all the way down to the Underdark portion of the cave. Those unlucky enough to wander in from this Underdark entrance are often grabbed and consumed by one of the troll’s many arms, before they even have a chance to realize their error.



The troll’s body is made up of dark, writhing tendrils of flesh that have a purple, bruised appearance that completely fill the pit, making it impossible to see its depth from either side. Random body parts of different animals and beings can be seen partially absorbed into the flesh of this monstrosity. Unlike a majority of its brethren, this troll is immune to all forms of acid, and in fact produces a light acidic fluid from the surface of its skin. This mixed with sea water that leaks into the pit from various cracks and streams that trickle through the caves, forms a sort of stomach that allows biomass to be consumed directly through the surface of the troll’s body. The head of the troll sits at the end of a long tentacle, and typically resides buried thousands of feet below the surface of the pit, surrounded in the vast tendrils of its own body. 

Sometime after the original dire troll began transforming into this biomass nightmare, a group of Red Wizards of Thay conducted a black magic ritual that transformed the troll into a much more intelligent being, allowing it to consume and inherit the memories of anything it consumes. Because of this, the gravemind troll serves as one of the most ancient record keepers of the island, but gaining an audience is rare, and surviving that audience is almost impossible. The only being able to safely commune with the troll is its keeper, the Mold Mother.


Characters - The Denizens of Deepwater
Court of Stars and Shadows
The Court of Star and Shadows, the council of Noctra’s hand-selected council, that led her church in the Prime Material. This court was founded by and is still led by Aywin Deepwater, the first child of Noctra. The court directs the overall actions of the church, although they rarely impose any sort of strict laws or rules of governance. The purpose of the Court is much more so to maintain the focus of the church on the acquisition of knowledge.

Aywin Deepwater.

Aywin Deepwater, drow, the First Child of Noctra.

Aywin Deepwater was a drow pirate with a hunger for knowledge. His father, Aithen Deepwater was the captain of a crew in Waterdeep, who changed his surname to one that he considered fitting of the “best pirate in waterdeep.” In his pursuit of divine knowledge, Aywin left his father’s crew, where he met Noctra on the Astral Plane.

Aywin would spend over 100 years studying with her in the Astral Sea, learning the intricate innerworkings of magic and runweaving. Through this time spent studying with the goddess, he would become the first of her chosen. While not typically outright evil like most drow, he does not shy away from it when it is the best solution to an issue. Like his master before him, Aywin values knowledge above all else, and despises the thought of hiding certain knowledge because of darkness and taboo. Aywin has a particular affinity for hellhounds, and almost always has at least one by his side. He also keeps several Eldunari on a golden pendant around his neck, the inhabitants of the gems acting as his personal cabinet.  

Sylvaris Greenage.

Sylvaris Greenage, Noctral Elf, High Priestess of Noctra.

The unlikely confidant to Aywin, Sylvaris Greenage is a former wood elf, and Noctra’s head priestess. Born as a wood elf, Sylvaris specializes in druidcraft and cleric magic and is responsible for a majority of the sanctuary spells found within Noctra’s mythal, who became a Noctral elf after spending an extended period of time in the sanctuary. While she was not the first Noctral elf, she was the first to achieve direct contact with the goddess of the night.
Colton Ridge.

Colton Ridge, Human, Arcane Gun-Slinger.

Little is known about Colton Ridge besides the reputation of his quick-draw aim. A gun-slinging warlock, Colton uses his magically infused pistols to cast spells. He serves as the primary muscle of Noctra’s high court.
Omari Lloyd.

Omari Lloyd, Human, Defier of Reality.

Omari Lloyd is an eccentric wizard who has an affinity for pushing the arcane limits of reality, often at his own body’s expense. With an innate understanding of chronurgy and runeweaving, Omari is one of if not the most powerful caster out of all the Children of the Night.

The Archimedes Sphere
Roughly twice the size of a baseball, Archimedes Spheres are made up of metal plates of varying material, with 10 holes inset into its surface. By inserting their fingers into the openings, a being can activate and manipulate the sphere for one of its several uses.
Around the center of the sphere are 4 eyelets, each of which has a thin braided metal cable, about 6 inches long, that wrap up into a thick cable that acts as a handle. All together about 1.5 feet in length.

The Sacred Archimedes Sphere of Noctra.
The original design for the device came from an artificer wizard's spellbook, specially designed for recording information through a series of whirs, clicks, and hums that can only be felt when manipulating the sphere. This writing ability can be used for anything from a wizards spellbook, to a standard diary. As long as the item is used via the physical transcription of information, it can be replaced with this ability. (Because this is a tactile method of reading/writing, it cannot affect or be affected by things that must be visually read such as illusory script. Similarly, a creature does not require eyesight or hearing to read or write information using this device, they only need to understand the simple, morse code-like language that the sphere uses.) 
Aywin took this device and created a new version that acts as a holy relic of Noctra. This version of the device has been enchanted with extradimensional magic, giving it several chambers much larger than than the external size of the device would suggest. These chambers hold various powerful relics, mostly Eldunari, and serve as a channeling device to connect with Noctra herself, meaning that the information Aywin recorded into this Archimedes Sphere could be recorded directly into the Greater Noctral Library, from almost anywhere in reality. The most notable relic outside of the Eldunari, is the phylactery of Katherine Lichskol, the vampiric lich. 
The overall device can be separated into multiple different pieces, which has allowed for it to be attuned to by each member of the Court of Stars and Shadows. Aywin himself is attuned to the central clockwork device; a rotating set of amulets that were cycled through an extradimensional pocket within the sphere. Many of these amulets were set with Eldunari, but others held Katherine’s phylactery, an Amethyst Lodestone, several Scholar’s Stones, a Sanctum Amulet, and a speaking stone, amongst several others. The sphere could be manipulated, causing different stones to be cycled through, allowing Aywin to use all of them from the same device.
The central frame of the device is a Star Druid Astrolabe, which is attuned to by Sylvaris Greenage. This astrolabe is unique in that it is entirely made out of the wood of a Staff of the Woodlands, which has been transmutated into a beautifully complex star chart made out of impossibly hard wood. The astrolabe has all the functionality of a Staff of the Woodlands, and also allows the wielder to cast Wood Shape. The outside edge of the astrolabe is adorned with various glowing purple runes that grant the star chart extra arcane potential.

Katherine Lichskol.
Katherine Lichskol was a dark cleric who specialized in necrotic magic that desired to cheat death and as such, began studying the path to lichdom. During her studies, she came across a den of vampires, and became enamored with their immortality as well. Desiring something greater than either could offer, Katherine devised her own lichdom ritual, and began the process of creating a phylactery. Her search for the dark magic required for a phylactery brought her to the libraries of Deepwater Church, where she communed with Noctra herself, who gave her the knowledge, in exchange for her fealty. 

As part of this agreement, Katherine’s phylactery was made to be one of the soul stones contained in Aywin’s Archimedes Sphere, where it would be protected as part of the sacred artifact itself. In order to complete her version of the ritual, she enlisted the help of Aywin, who protected her for the fortnight it took to complete the ritual, Sylvaris Greenage, and a vampire. Rather than using a more typical method, Katherine had the vampire drain the life from her after the formation of the phylactery, her consumption of the Lichnee potion, and the completion of the ritual, transforming her into both a vampire and a lich at the same time.

Katherine Lichskol, the Vampire Lich.

As a result, she had the abilities of a vampire: the fangs, mesmerization, and shapeshifting, but had the phylactery based resurrection of a lich. This new form of lichdom still gave her the ability to drain blood and life energy with her newfound fangs, but she found it could not satiate the hungering for souls that her lichdom now gave her. Despite her body not rotting away like a typical lich, she still needs to consume souls to continue existing. With her phylactery being stored in Aywin’s Archimedes Sphere, occasionally she will spontaneously reconstitute nearby him. Many believe Katherine to be a high priestess of the Noctisore, but these rumors have never been outwardly confirmed.

Though her vampirism prevented her body from rotting away, a sickly green color could be seen interwoven with her pale white skin. She often wears the top half of a plague doctor's mask to hide her face, while still allowing use of her fangs.

Crellix Grayve
Crellix Grayve, better known as the Mold Mother, is a powerful necrotic wizard who lives in the Garden of Mold beneath the island, and treats the Gravemind Troll as a pet. 

Crellix Grayve, the half-minotaur necromancer.

Crellix Grave is a half-minotaur necromancer with a particular affinity for biological transmutation. Little is known about her origin, outside of her minotaur ancestry, which can be seen in her cow ears, horns, tail and hooves. Despite this, she is of average human size, but has an intense aura of death radiating from her at all times.

The Mold Mother spends a majority of the time tending to her garden, feeding the troll and growing new abominations. Though she is feared by most, her botanical knowledge is unparalleled, and many come to Deepwater seeking her expertise in poisons, potions, and antidotes. She keeps a vast library of grimoires and tomes sat in shelves dug into the cave walls, extending all the way up to the ceiling. She has a telepathic link with the Gravemind Troll, and can control it to the point where it is almost an extension of herself, often using its tendrils to lift herself to the higher portions of the garden to access her library.

Crellix is one of the very few non-reigar to wield a full power shakti, which in totem form resembles a cow. This shakti came as a gift from the Reigar Kokonix, who has pledged fealty to Crellix and her garden. This has led to a strange dynamic where the Reigar House Grayve is formally headed by Kokonix, but in reality is controlled by Crellix.


Crellix Grayve, wearing her shakti armor      ||      Kokonix, Reigar Bard.
Kokonix
Kokonix is a Reigar artist who, like many, discovered the Deepwater portal far out in the Astral Plane and decided to take refuge amongst the others of her kind in Deepwater. It was there in Deepwater that she met and became fascinated with Mother of Mold. She became obsessed with Crellix and how a being so surrounded by the rot and death of the Garden of Mold could be so overwhelmingly beautiful. 

She began studying under the Mold Mother’s patronage, and eventually pledged fealty to her. As a token of her faith, she created a new shakti for her house, the token of which was in the form of a cow. She created a fully fledged shakti for her new patron, one with the head of a bull on its shoulder, and a bow made out of black dragon bones, thus creating House Grayve. House Grayve is a very powerful influence amongst the Reigar space, mostly because of the raw arcanic power that Crellix can threaten. 
Cinomintaur
The Garden of the Mold Mother is overflowing with strange creatures created from necrotic energy. Chief among these is the Cinomintaur, who Crellix and the rest of house Grayve utilize as bodyguards.

Cinomintaur guards of House Grayve

Cinomintaur are hulking beings that are a cross between a minotaur and centaur. With the strength and bloodlust of the former and the speed of the latter, cinomintaur are incredibly deadly creatures that were usually found in pairs. All known instances of Cinomintaur, at least those created by the Mold Mother are male.
Nothic
In her study of black magic, the Mold Mother was able to recreate the Nothic curse of Vecna, one which twisted its victims into strange aberrations driven by an unquenchable thirst for knowledge. 

Sharenysus.
The altering properties of Noctra’s weave are exceptionally powerful when within the plane of Deepwater Church. This often causes other divine beings to take on a new form, where certain elements of their portfolio are amplified and others are dampened. Chief among these is Sharess, the goddess of hedonism, sensual fulfilment, and lust. When in Noctra’s plane, Shares transforms into her Sharenysus form. 

Sharenysus, the Noctral form of Sharess.

As Sharenysus, she becomes the patron of wine and celebration, on top of her normal hedonism and pleasure. She can often be found here, picking and choosing from her vast choices of mortals. 

Carlatwin Verbos.
Carlatwin Verbos is a quick-witted goblin wizard whose nimble fingers are often too good at finding valuables in cracks, crevices, and pockets, getting him into trouble. He has not stepped foot in Deepwater in over a decade, and he has never told a soul why. He lives in the wizard tower high above Newlisthyme.
Theorock the Bald.
Theorock the Bald is a dwarf fisherman that has a strange working relationship with Carlatwin Verbos. By most measurements, the two hate one another, but because of how small Newlisthyme is, Carlatwin is the only real mage that can offer services to Theorock and Theorock is the only boat captain willing to smuggle goods for Carlatwin. The amount of gold and goods exchanged between the two and the overall net gain is the only thing keeping the two from ripping each other apart.




Magic Items - The Artifacts of Deepwater
Scholar’s Stone
Source: Mystra’s Blasphemer
Wondrous Item, Rare

This stone resembles a tiger’s eye gemstone, with shimmering bands of brown, gold, and orange glimmering along its surface.

A Scholar’s Stone.

Each stone holds 3 charges. As an action while you are holding the stone, you can use a charge to cast Scholar’s Touch on one creature within view, the effect of the spell lasts 1 hour, rather than the usual 1 minute, or until it is dispelled. All 3 charges are replenished each dawn.

Staff of the Woodlands
Source: Dungeon Master’s Guide [Modified]
Staff, rare (requires attunement by a druid)

This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, you have a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls.

The staff has 10 charges for the following properties. It regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. 

animal friendship (1 charge)
awaken (5 charges)
barkskin (2 charges)
locate animals or plants (2 charges)
speak with animals (1 charge)
speak with plants (3 charges)
wall of thorns (6 charges).
You can also use an action to cast the Pass Without Trace spell from the staff without using any charges.

Tree Form. You can use an action to plant one end of the staff in fertile earth and expend 1 charge to transform the staff into a healthy tree. The tree is 60 feet tall and has a 5-foot-diameter trunk, and its branches at the top spread out in a 20-foot radius. The tree appears ordinary but radiates a faint aura of transmutation magic if targeted by detect magic. While touching the tree and using another action to speak its command word, you return the staff to its normal form. Any creature in the tree falls when it reverts to a staff.


Spells - The Magic of Deepwater
Scholar’s Touch
Source: Races of Destiny (3.5)
1st-level divination (ritual)

Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You can touch any book or scroll and absorb the knowledge contained within as if you had just read it. This is equivalent to a solid reading but not deep study. The character does not gain perfect recall of the information, just whatever he would have gotten from reading it completely once. If you can't read the language of the source, the spell has no effect. This spell cannot be used to prepare spells or to cast magical scrolls, nor does it have any effect when reading a magical book (such as a tome of understanding).

Wood Shape
Source: Player’s Handbook (3.5)
2nd-level transmutation

Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

You touch a piece of wood, which may be a Large or smaller tree or wooden object or a section of wood that fits entirely within a 10-foot cube, and cause it to twist into any shape you desire. The extent of these changes can't cause the wood to extend beyond 10 feet in any dimension. While it is possible to make crude coffers, doors, and so forth, fine detail isn't possible. You can also create simple melee weapons, such as a club, greatclub, or quarterstaff, using this spell, but shields, armor, and martial or ranged weapons are too complex to create.

Explore Deepwater
The adventure begins in the wizardly study of Carlatwin Verbos. If you are using this as the starting point of the adventure, the party can just begin there, otherwise, have the party find a flyer asking for an adventurers party to complete a quest, with a 5000 gp payment upfront, and a doubling upon completion.
The physical location of Carlatwin’s study does not matter. If you are inserting this into a pre-existing campaign, you can place it anywhere, as long as it's near the sea. If you don’t have a pre-established location, use the town of Newlisthyme. Begin with this narration:
Newlisthyme is a small port town nestled in green rolling hills, the ocean stretching out endlessly along the horizon. The town itself is rather unnoteworthy, merely being a small collection of residences and markets that sell to the local fishermen. Upon the westward hill, rising high in the sky, lies the tower of the reclusive Carlatwin Verbos, where you find yourself speaking to the great wizard Verbos, answering his call for a party willing to complete a simple quest.
Carlatwin is a shifty goblin, who’s rather infamous for his abilities as a pickpocket. He will take any and all opportunities to steal from the party, not being dissuaded until openly threatened, and even then still taking opportunities when they arise. He is a cowardly wizard who will typically avoid combat at all costs, but is more than capable of taking on the level 5 party by himself.
He is asking the party to complete a quest for him, deliver a medallion with a blue stone to an island called Deepwater, off the coast of Newlisthyme. He’ll provide the travel in the form of a fishing captain who owes him a favor, and is offering the party 5000 gp each now, to accept the quest, and an additional 5000 gp upon completion of the quest. Upon accepting, Carlatwin produces the artifact for delivery:
Carlatwin reaches into the pocket of his oversized jacket and removes a medallion: a beautifully ornate golden frame, set with the most beautiful blue/purple gemstone that you have ever seen. Fractals of color move across the stone as it turns in the light, casting a shimmering ambience around the room. Any mage can immediately detect an immense amount of magic emanating from the stone.
Carlatwin will inform the party that all they must do is transport this amulet to Deepwater island, and their payouts will be doubled upon their return. It is very obvious to the players that the goblin is hiding something, but what he’s hiding is impossible to discern. Ultimately, the 10,000gp each reward for completing the quest should be enough to convince the party.
Upon agreeing, Carlatwin teleports himself and the entire party down to a boat on the dock known as the Mother Keel. A small shipping vessel captained by the dwarf Theorock the Bald. Theorock and Carlatwin have a strange relationship where they are more or less forced to work together due to the lack of anybody else useful in the town of Newlisthyme. Carlatwin is the only mage able to offer magic services to Theorock, and Theorock is the only captain willing to smuggle black market goods in and out of the port.
When Carlatwin teleports the party aboard the Mother Keel, it's apparent that Theorock was expecting them, but is still not happy about having to see Carlatwin. The two don’t speak to one another, and instead Carlatwin informs the party that they must travel 14 nautical miles directly offshore where they will find the island they are looking for. Importantly, Theorock does not hear these instructions. Afterwards, Carlatwin teleports away, informing the party that their payment is on the boat (there is 5000gp for each member of the party).
When the party enters the boat, Theorock begins departing, if the characters say they want to do something first, Theorock will tell them that Carlatwin’s orders were to get this done as soon as possible, and he isn’t going to wait. This is primarily to prevent the players from spending any of the money until they reach Deepwater. There’s nothing wrong with the money, but 5000 gp is a lot for level 5 characters and is better spent in Deepwater than in standard shops and towns.
The boat ride goes smoothly, and Theorock doesn’t speak unless the party forces him into conversation, and even then is short with his answers. It’s apparent that he isn’t doing this out of kindness or friendship, and is likely receiving a payment the same way the party is. As the boat approaches the 14 NM mark, Theorock will ask for clarification of where to go next. When the party tells him the island is 14 nautical miles straight out, he’ll insist that there’s nothing there and that he sails these waters daily. If the party is not able to offer a sufficient explanation, he will begin becoming angry and belligerent:
Theorock turns from the helm and spits angrily, a vein pulses on his forehead and he clenches his fists. Right as it seems like he might be about to lose control, a cloud of fog swallows the ship, manifesting seemingly out of nowhere. The moment the fog touches each member of the party, they can hear a faint singing. Theorock immediately stops being angry, goes slackjawed, and stands still as if in a trance.
The singing grows louder as the fog becomes so thick you can’t see outside the edge of the boat. Then as quickly as it appeared, the fog vanishes and as it does, the singing reaches a crescendo. 
The whole party must make a DC10 wisdom saving throw. Any players who succeed can subsequently make a DC15 perception check. On a success, they immediately recognize the effects of the fabled sirens, and know to plug their ears and the ears of anyone who failed the initial WIS saving throw. 
Anyone who fails is entranced and can no longer do anything but look around. They can still see, hear, and make checks to understand what is happening around them, but they are unable to move, speak, or act in any way. This effect lasts until their ears are somehow plugged, or until they enter the borders of Deepwater. Regardless of what happens with the party, Theorock will turn the boat towards Deepwater island, activate a magical rune that detaches the steering wheel from the helm, and then walk off the edge of the boat and fall into the water. If the players try to prevent this, Theorock will move faster than what seems possible for a dwarf, and they will be unable to stop him. The only way to prevent this is by incapacitating Theorock before entering the fog, tying him up, and then entering the fog by themselves. Theorock isn’t designed to survive past this point, so If they do this, you can do whatever you want with his aspect of the story. 
If all members of the party fail the initial WIS saving throw, Theorock jumps into the water, and the boat slams into the “shore” of Deepwater, amongst hundreds of other boats. The charm ends the moment the boat crashes:
As the boat’s speed reaches a peak, a mountainous graveyard of ships, masts, and hulls eclipses the sky in front of you. Hundreds of ships; some full sized pirate frigates with huge masts adorned with the skull and crossbones of old crews, others small fishing trawlers, and sail boats. Theorock’s small boat slams into the hull of a large frigate, breaching through the rotting hull, and knocking everyone prone. 
The sirens can be glimpsed by the party, watching them from cracks and from the water, but they don’t seem hostile now that the ship has crashed. If the party tries to free the boat or examine the damage, it seems as if Theorock’s boat has somehow melded into the hull of the rotting frigate, as if the wood from the two ships had been welded together. The party is unable to remove the boat from the wreckage. As the party finds their way out of the hull of this rotting boat, they climb to the top of the graveyard of ships, revealing the island of Deepwater about 200 feet away:
As you climb up onto the hull of another boat, its mast cracked and fallen over across the ship’s helm, you finally get a good look at your destination. The most notable thing is the sky, above you is a beautiful smattering of stars and auroras, backed by a soft purple glow in the night sky. Despite this, you find yourselves able to see through the apparent darkness easily. 
Regardless of what time it was when you entered, it is always “night” time in Deepwater. Any creatures or races with sunlight vulnerabilities like Drow and Vampires do not suffer from those effects here. When outdoors, creatures without darkvision can see the normal distance they would be able to during the day. This doesn’t apply to places like inside the cave.
In front of you lies Deepwater island, about 5 miles across, and surrounded on all sides by this graveyard of boats. At the center of the island sits an enormous mesa of inky black stone. From where you stand you can faintly see what appears to be the entrance to a cave on the side of the mountain. Surrounding the mountain is a forest of tall trees, all of which are of various black and purple hues. You can still hear the sirens’ song, but it seems to no longer have any effect on you.
All of the boats have already been picked clean, and most of them are rotting and falling apart. If the players search, it immediately becomes apparent that there is nothing to find out here. As the party moves inland, if they examine the black and purple trees, they will find they are exactly identical to the plants they are familiar with, the colors are just strange. 

As the party enters the cave, read:
The air cools as you move down the thin ledge leading into the cavern. A faint music can be heard over the soft lapping of the waves against the rocks. Carried along by a breeze that smells of salt and sea water.
As you move down the path, the thin ledge opens up into a wooden pathway that sort of resembles a dock. As the path grows wider the mouth of the cave expands, revealing the full revelry of Deepwater Cavern. The roof of the cave stands some 100 feet above your head, thick stalactites stretch down from the darkness above. The roof is covered with a foggy substance that’s difficult to focus your eyes on.
The full cavern is enormous, spanning almost 1500 feet across at its widest points. The floor is split down the middle by the channel leading back out into the ocean, the other end of which opens up into a huge pool of ocean water in the center of the cave. This pool is about 300 feet across, and extends down farther than you can see, despite the crystal clear water. Merfolk, sirens, and elves can be seen swimming in and out of the channel and other underwater tunnels that lead down and out of sight.
Surrounding the huge ocean pool is a series of boardwalks and docks that wrap around the outside of the water, with a few bridges crossing over the center. The boardwalk is lined with buildings glowing with a warm yellow light, the sounds of dancing and singing mix with the smell of alcohol and cooking food.
As you approach the surprisingly large settlement, you can see all manner of people walking about: elegant Reigar, adorned with tattoos and piercings, their hair floating in the air as if it were underwater. You see Noctral elves strolling about and shouting cheers at the cantina, their skin a bone white color, in stark contrast to their appearance outside the cave. Some jump into the sea water, and swim into the many underwater passageways adorning the walls of the ocean channel. Several pirates stumble down the boardwalk, the alcohol on their breath noticeable from a good 10 feet away.
If players examine the foggy substance on the roof:
Have the players roll perception. 

If they get 20+, read this explanation:
A cloudy substance shifts ambiently across the roof of the cave almost 200 feet in the air. You can tell that it’s a cloud, because you can clearly see the silhouette blooming and falling in on itself the way clouds do, and because the substance wraps around the hanging stalactites as if it were a fog. But as you look at the fog itself, you have a hard time focusing on its form. Rather than having the bright and dark spots you would expect of a volumetric cloud like this, the surface of the substance has a strange parallax effect to it, that makes it incredibly difficult to focus on the actual form of the substance, almost as if the surface was incredibly far away, like a bright gray cloud far behind the actual cloud in the room. As you look, you are taken aback, as something begins to drift into view within the cloudy substance. You watch in shock as an enormous gold crown slowly floats across what you realize is the Astral Plane, and as it slowly drifts past, it reveals the old skull of a fallen god, long forgotten drifting amongst the ruins. You realize you are looking at a portal directly into the Astral Plane. They can point this event out to the rest of the party who can also observe the dead god drift across the view of the portal. 

If they get 15-19 read this explanation:
A cloudy substance shifts ambiently across the roof of the cave almost 200 feet in the air. You can tell that it’s a cloud, because you can clearly see the silhouette blooming and falling in on itself the way clouds do, and because the substance wraps around the hanging stalactites as if it were a fog. But as you look at the fog itself, you have a hard time focusing on its form. Rather than having the bright and dark spots you would expect of a volumetric cloud like this, the surface of the substance has a strange parallax effect to it, that makes it incredibly difficult to focus on the actual form of the substance.

If the character in question has been to or is familiar with the Astral Plane:
As you look at this strange, bright gray, void, a sense of familiarity, or recognition comes over you. You’re gazing into a vast, gray, nothingness. The vast, gray, nothingness. A nothingness that you recognize as the Astral Plane.

If the character is not familiar with the Astral Plane:
As you look at this strange, bright gray, void, you feel a vast nothingness, unlike you’ve ever experienced. It almost gives you the feeling of vertigo as you realize what you’re looking at continues on forever. This bright gray nothingness imprints itself in your memory in a way you will never forget. If the character ever sees or has the Astral Plane described to them after this, they will connect the two together and realize the cloudy substance is likely a portal to the Astral Plane.

If they get 5-15:
They fail to understand what they’re looking at, but can reasonably assume that the locals of this place would be easily able to answer should they ask.

If they get less than 5:
They have no idea what they’re looking at.


If players examine the pool of water in the middle:
